Credit Cards
Loans
Banking
Mortgages
Insurance
Credit Monitoring
Personal Finance
Small Business
Taxes
Help for Low Credit Scores
Investing
SELECT
AllCredit Cards
Find the Credit Card for You
Best Credit Cards
Best Rewards Credit Cards
Best Travel Credit Cards
Best 0% APR Credit Cards
Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Best Cash Back Credit Cards
Best Credit Card Welcome Bonuses
Best Credit Cards to Build Credit
SELECT
AllLoans
Find the Best Personal Loan for You
Best Personal Loans
Best Debt Consolidation Loans
Best Loans to Refinance Credit Card Debt
Best Loans with Fast Funding
Best Small Personal Loans
Best Large Personal Loans
Best Personal Loans to Apply Online
Best Student Loan Refinance
SELECT
AllBanking
Find the Savings Account for You
Best High Yield Savings Accounts
Best Big Bank Savings Accounts
Best Big Bank Checking Accounts
Best No Fee Checking Accounts
No Overdraft Fee Checking Accounts
Best Checking Account Bonuses
Best Money Market Accounts
Best CDs
Best Credit Unions
SELECT
AllMortgages
Best Mortgages
Best Mortgages for Small Down Payment
Best Mortgages for No Down Payment
Best Mortgages with No Origination Fee
Best Mortgages for Average Credit Score
Adjustable Rate Mortgages
Affording a Mortgage
SELECT
AllInsurance
Best Life Insurance
Best Homeowners Insurance
Best Renters Insurance
Best Car Insurance
Travel Insurance
SELECT
AllCredit Monitoring
Best Credit Monitoring Services
Best Identity Theft Protection
How to Boost Your Credit Score
Credit Repair Services
SELECT
AllPersonal Finance
Best Budgeting Apps
Best Expense Tracker Apps
Best Money Transfer Apps
Best Resale Apps and Sites
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) Apps
Best Debt Relief
SELECT
AllSmall Business
Best Small Business Savings Accounts
Best Small Business Checking Accounts
Best Credit Cards for Small Business
Best Small Business Loans
Best Tax Software for Small Business
SELECT
AllTaxes
Filing For Free
Best Tax Software
Best Tax Software for Small Businesses
Tax Refunds
Tax Brackets
Tax Tips
Tax By State
Tax Payment Plans
SELECT
AllHelp for Low Credit Scores
Best Credit Cards for Bad Credit
Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit
Best Debt Consolidation Loans for Bad Credit
Personal Loans if You Don't Have Credit
Best Credit Cards for Building Credit
Personal Loans for 580 Credit Score or Lower
Personal Loans for 670 Credit Score or Lower
Best Mortgages for Bad Credit
Best Hardship Loans
How to Boost Your Credit Score
SELECT
AllInvesting
Best IRA Accounts
Best Roth IRA Accounts
Best Investing Apps
Best Free Stock Trading Platforms
Best Robo-Advisors
Index Funds
Mutual Funds
ETFs
Bonds

The summer of 2024 was the hottest on record, according to the European Union's climate monitor, extending an alarming run of temperature records that has put the planet firmly on course to notch its hottest year in human history.
The EU's Copernicus Climate Change Service (C3S)saidon Friday that the global average temperature for the boreal summer, which refers to the Northern Hemisphere's June through August period, was the highest on record.
The summer months were found to be 0.69 degrees Celsius above the 1991-2020 average for the June-August period. It surpasses the previous record from June-August last year, which was 0.66 degrees Celsius above the average baseline.
Samantha Burgess, deputy director of C3S, said the world had experienced the hottest June and August, the hottest day on record and the hottest boreal summer on record in the space of just three months.
"This string of record temperatures is increasing the likelihood of 2024 being the hottest year on record," Burgess said in a written statement.
"The temperature-related extreme events witnessed this summer will only become more intense, with more devastating consequences for people and the planet unless we take urgent action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions," she added.
The data from C3S, which has been tracking the daily global mean temperature since 1940, comes after an unprecedented number of national heat records have been broken since the start of the year.
Extreme heat is made much more likely by the climate crisis, the chief driver of which is the burning of fossil fuels.
Scientists have repeatedly called for rapid reductions in greenhouse gas emissions to stop global average temperatures rising.
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
©2024CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved.A Division of NBCUniversal
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
      Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
      and Analysis.
Data also provided by