This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided byFactset. Powered and implemented byFactSet Digital Solutions.Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
Former GOP Rep. Lee Zeldin, R-N.Y., speaks to 'The Story' after being asked to join the incoming Trump administration as EPA administrator.
The White House released a fact-sheet about the Biden administration's work at the U.N. Global Climate Change Summit being held this week, detailing the work the U.S. delegation will undergo while in attendance.
The U.S. delegation, according to the fact sheet,will focus on three main pillars while at the climate conference in Azerbaijan, one of which is to address the national security "risks" that climate change poses.
"At COP29, the U.S. delegation will promote U.S. efforts to seize the economic opportunities of the clean energy transition, address the risks climate change poses to our national security, and accelerate climate action in this decisive decade," the fact sheet stated.
BIDEN ADMIN TOUTS JOB WELL DONE REPLENISHING OIL RESERVES DESPITE DEPLETING THEM BY HALF OVER LAST 4 YEARS
The document pointed to nuclear energy production and clean energy capacity as two main components the climate delegation would focus on pertaining to national security.
TRUMP TO INSTALL ‘ENERGY CZAR’ TO DISMANTLE BIDEN CLIMATE RULES: REPORT
Meanwhile, in September, the Biden administration released a"U.S. Framework for Climate Resilience and Security,"which posited that the U.S. national security community "has long understood" the threat that climate change poses to "existing security threats and vulnerabilities."
A young girl walks near the Baku Olympic Stadium, the venue of the COP29 United Nations Climate Change Conference on Oct. 23, 2024 in Baku, Azerbaijan. The 2024 U.N. Climate Change Conference will convene in November 2024 in Baku.(Photo by Aziz Karimov/Getty Images)
The framework cited increased flooding and severe storms impacting military bases, extreme heat that "costs lives, reduces productivity and damages critical infrastructure," decreased food security as the result of droughts and air pollution. It also pointed to the need for the military to respond to increased disasters caused by climate change, which the framework said works to drain its resources.
"The devastating impacts of the climate crisis increasingly are themselves the new direct threats from which we must protect our communities," the framework stated. It was signed by John Podesta, senior advisor to the president for International Climate Policy, and Jake Sullivan, assistant to the president for National Security Affairs.
President Biden this week imposed a new tax on methane emissions.(Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
During President Biden's first few days in office, he signed a series of executive orders that made "climate central to foreign policy planning, to diplomacy and to national security preparedness,"according to John Kerry,Biden's former climate envoy. Biden was the first president in U.S. history to direct U.S. intelligence agencies to study the national security risks that climate change poses.
Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox NewsPrivacy Policy and Terms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided byFactset. Powered and implemented byFactSet Digital Solutions.Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided byRefinitiv Lipper.